There is abundant evidence of a widened and deepened interest in modern
science. How could it be otherwise when we think of the magnitude and
the eventfulness of recent advances?
But the interest of the general public would be even greater than it is
if the makers of new knowledge were more willing to expound their
discoveries in ways that could be "understanded of the people." No one
objects very much to technicalities in a game or on board a yacht, and
they are clearly necessary for terse and precise scientific description.
It is certain, however, that they can be reduced to a minimum without
sacrificing accuracy, when the object in view is to explain "the gist of
the matter." So this OUTLINE OF SCIENCE is meant for the general reader,
who lacks both time and opportunity for special study, and yet would
take an intelligent interest in the progress of science which is making
the world always new.
The story of the triumphs of modern science is one of which Man may well
be proud. Science reads the secret of the distant star and anatomises
the atom; foretells the date of the comets' return and predicts the
kinds of chickens that will hatch from a dozen eggs; discovers the laws
of the wind that bloweth where it listeth and reduces to order the
disorder of disease. Science is always setting forth on Columbus
voyages, discovering new worlds and conquering them by understanding.
For Knowledge means Foresight and Foresight means Power.
It is characteristic of modern science that the whole world is seen to
be more vital than before. Everywhere there has been a passage from the
static to the dynamic. Thus the new revelations of the constitution of
matter have shown the very dust to have a complexity and an activity heretofore
unimagined. Such phrases as "dead" matter and "inert" matter have gone
by the board.
The advent of the electron theory has thrown a flood of light on what
before was hidden or only dimly guessed at. It has given us a new
conception of the framework of the universe. We are beginning to know
and realise of what matter is made and what electric phenomena mean. We
can glimpse the vast stores of energy locked up in matter. The new
knowledge has much to tell us about the origin and phenomena, not only
of our own planet, but other planets, of the stars, and the sun. 
But the discovery of electrons is only one of the revolutionary changes
which give modern science an entrancing interest.